---
title: "Usage"
bg: orange  #defined in _config.yml, can use html color like '#0fbfcf'
color: black   #text color
fa-icon: power-off
---

## How do I use Keemei?

Now that you have Keemei installed, you're ready to create a Google Sheet, add your metadata, and validate it! But before continuing, **please read the following warning**.

### Warning: please read!

Keemei displays validation status by modifying cell background colors and notes. If you use Keemei, **you will lose ALL existing cell background colors and notes in the active sheet.** There are future plans to minimize Keemei's impact on your Google Sheets, but for the time being this is a caveat of using Keemei.

-------------------------

### Validating your metadata

You can validate the metadata stored in the active sheet through the following menus:

`Add-ons` -> `Keemei` -> `Validate QIIME mapping file format (versions 0.92 - 1.9.x)`

Valid cells will be colored green, cells with warnings will be colored yellow, and cells with errors will be colored red. Hover your mouse over a cell with a warning or error to see the reason(s) why the cell is invalid.

Make fixes to any number of invalid cells and re-validate by clicking the same menu item you selected above. When all cells are colored green, this indicates that your metadata are valid!

-------------------------

### Resetting the status

To clear the validation status on the active sheet, resetting cell background colors to white and clearing notes, click:

`Add-ons` -> `Keemei` -> `Clear validation status`
